What matters is not to know the world but to change it.
In the World through which I travel, I am endlessly creating myself.
Surveillance is permanent in its effects, even if it is discontinuous in its action.
We are entering the age of the infinite examination and of compulsory objectification.
A stupid despot may constrain his slaves with iron chains; but a true politician binds them even more strongly by the chain of their own ideas… on the soft fibers of the brain is founded the unshakable base of the soundest of Empires.
The use of both suspension and expulsion appears to be increasing substantially over time. Between 1974 and 2010, according to data collected by the US Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights Civil Rights Data Collection (CRDC), the rate at which students across the country were suspended and expelled from schools almost doubled, from 3.7% (1.7 million students) suspended in 1974 (Wald & Losen, 2003) to 6.6% (over 3 million students) suspended in 2009–2010.
Too often, schools react to the behavior of such children while failing to respond to their unmet needs or the factors responsible for their problematic behavior. In so doing, they contribute to the marginalization of such students, often pushing them out of school altogether, while ignoring the issues that actually cause the problematic behavior. Schools also punish the neediest children be- cause in many schools there is a fixation with behavior management and social control that out- weighs and overrides all other priorities and goals.
Disciplinary practices used in American classrooms indicate that episodes of teacher violence have been a consistent and conspicuous part of American schooling since the very beginning.
Schooling has undergone a process by which violence becomes normalized in everyday school life via an accompanying ethos of fear wherever a techo-security apparatus is relined on as the primary mechanism for achieving schoolwide discipline.
Restorative justice attempted to lower suspensions and holistically create alternative cultures to school punishment. But even with restorative justice's caring rhetoric and practice, Oakland Unified's hand in teacher turn over, police misconduct, an over-reliance on school security officers, and absent academic resources could not be overlooked. 
Before the inception of the juvenile justice system over a century ago, juvenile offenders were commonly referred to as little adults” and punished accordingly.
There is no such thing as a single-issue struggle, because we do not live single-issue lives.
Cultural patterns of oppression are not only interrelated but are bound together and influenced by the intersectional systems of society. Examples of this include race, gender, class, ability, and ethnicity.
If it takes a village to raise a child, it certainly takes a movement to undo an occupation.
The state could build prisons, but not just anywhere. The state could borrow money, but not always openly. The state could round up persons who correspond demographically to those squeezed out of restructured labor markets, but not at the same rate everywhere. After twenty years, $5 billion in capital outlays, and the accumulation of 161,394 prisoners (as of April 2004), the CDC has become California's largest department, with a budget exceeding 8 percent of the annual general fund—roughly equal to general fund appropriations for postsecondary education.
At the same time that it is dismantling the social safety net, the government has intensified its coercive interventions in poor communities of color. The neoliberal regime does not unidimensionally shrink government. It equally depends on the brutal containment of the nation's most disenfranchised groups.
The astronomical escalation of imprisonment inflicts havoc on the neighborhoods from which most incarcerated individuals come and to which they return.
Mass imprisonment damages social networks, distorts social norms, and destroys social citizenship.
People suffer not only because the government has abandoned them but also because punitive policies make their lives more difficult.
The manner in which the machinery of instruction bears upon the child really controls the whole system
Educators have learned over generations how to work within these traditional organizational patterns. Habit is a labor-saving device. 
The familiar matrix of schooling persisted in part because it enabled teachers to discharge their duties in a predictable fashion and to cope with the everyday tasks that school boards, principals, and parents expected them to perform:controlling student behavior, instructing heterogeneous populations, or sorting people for future roles in school and later life.
Schooling is more contradictory in its aims and more ineffective in accomplishing these aims than one might guess from the vision of schooling as a smooth-running engine of either a meritocracy or reproduction.
Consumers have to spend increasing amounts of time and money to gain additional credentials because the swelling number of credential holders keeps lowing the value of credentials at any given level.
The urge to get ahead has transformed the basic function of US education form public service to private service, and this transformation has brought significant consequences for the people who attend, work in, pay for, and in various ways depend on American schools.
Instead of fostering in its students traits such as honesty, integrity, cooperation, and respect, the school may be promoting deception, hostility, and anxiety.
High school is a way of building up a tolerance for stress and only the most fit” survive. Successful students learned to devise various strategies to stay ahead of their peers and to please those in power positions; unsuccessful students, for a variety of reasons, were not as adept at playing the survival game. They ultimately received low grades and were weeded out of the competition for higher credentials.
The "hidden curriculum" comprises the unstated lessons that students learn in school: it is the running subtext through which which teachers communicate behavioral norms and individual status in the school culture, the process of socialization that cues children into their place in the hierarchy of larger society.
Have such developments deepened the Cartesian mind-body bifurcation so that the supervision of the student's mind has become the province of the teacher whereas supervision of the body is consigned exclusively to the guards?
There is a cult of ignorance in the United States, and there has always been. The strain of anti-intellectualism has been a constant thread winding its way through our political and cultural life, nurtured by the false notion that democracy means that 'my ignorance is just as good as your knowledge.
In part, many kids don't want to be "well-educated" because they can't even imagine what it is that could be "wantable." Which is not to say they don't want the credential, so they try. 
Too many kids don't see a connection between their efforts and school success, don't know what it is they need to practice, can't imagine themselves ever being "academic," and have never seen "academics" played.
Find us some statistics that show a hard connection between the academic subjects taught in most high schools and successful living by anyone's standard, aside from the arbitrary connection we've created by making the one a prerequisite for the other.
There are sounder ways to maintain the integrity and health of academic learning than making it the gatekeeper for all other "worthy" adult activities.
Academia has no monopoly on the habits of mind that underlie good practice in all vocations in a democratic society, including the first and foremost of vocations, that of citizens.
Human beings, for all our terrible flaws, are by nature theorists, thinkers.
Most American high schools are almost sadistically unhealthy places to send adolescents.
Though adolescents may want nothing more than to be able to define themselves, they discover that high school is one of the hardest places to do it. 
It's not adolescence that's the problem. It's the giant box of strangers.
I used to get mad at my school, the teachers that taught me weren't cool, they are holding me down, turning me round, filling me up with your rules